**|Subject to major editing|**
This repo includes a year long progress of our thesis project titled:
# Modernizing Public Security Systems

Constantly sitting behind a desk looking at a screen connected to surveillance cameras is surely an infeasible task for humans. However, this task is quite important for ensuring the safety of public spaces. In most cases, abnormal behavior is left unnoticed which largely compromises the safety of people especially in crowded spaces. Hence, we propose to work on this project where we can build a system that would alert the person behind the screen when an unusual behavior is detected.

In this project, we build a web app which a security guard can monitor along with the actual CCTV footage. An unsupervised model would be integrated with the web app actively classifying incoming visual data. Once an abnormal action is detected by the system, the app would alert the guard of unusual behavior which now the guard can assess and decide whether a harmful action is taking place. Note here that the model does not learn whether an action is harmful or not, it only learns whether a particular action is peculiar to previously learnt behavior and consequently calls for expert interference to analyze the situation. Once the expert flags the situation as dangerous, he/she can alert all police officers or dedicated personnels nearby to attend to the scene. This project is not meant to replace the involvement of humans but considering our limitations a system that would aid with such monotonous tasks would largely complement human capabilities.
